The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Cats walk on their toes.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
Female felines are \superfecund
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
